---
title: "\"A Virtual Tabletop for the Modern Era\""
author: Shawn McGee
date: "2023-04-25"
tags: [ Alchemy, TTRPG, VTT, Roll20, TaleSpire ]
layout: post
---

### *From Humble Beginnings*

The first TTRPG I ever had the opportunity of playing was Pathfinder. I was in highschool, a new kid had just moved in next door, his cousin was a burgeoning TTRPG nerd, and my brother and I were invited to join his Pathfinder campaign. This was the early 2010's and while the *Satanic Panic* had more or less passed us by, I still remember there was plenty of pearl clutching on the part of my parents who were ultimately convinced to let us play because *"It wasn't Dungeons & Dragons."*

There were many nights where we lost track of time enchanted by a world that was unfolding before our very eyes, only for the fantasy to evaporate as a loud knock came from the door. After breaking curfew in this way a few times my brother and I were banned from future Pathfinder sessions, but that did very little to sate our ravenous curiosity.

The seeds of *sin and debauchery* had been planted and we have been avid TTRPG fans ever since.

### *To Meager Middles*

Fast forward to 2020. I was working as a clerk at a major grocery retailer and I had made a few friends. Discussion around videogames and TTRPGs was vibrant and made work bearable, which inevitably developed into a weekly *Dungeons & Dragons 5th Edition* campaign of which I was at the helm. After arduously organizing and preparing everything, news of the novel coronavirus COVID-19 and the subsequent pandemic that followed obliterated any opportunity to meet in-person.

So we pivoted.

We began meeting online. I setup up a Discord server and hosted our campaign on Roll20. For us, Roll20 was somehow simultaneously *the best and the worst* option available. Being a free, browser-based VTT meant that no one had to purchase a subscription, download a large executable, or use an expensive computer. And Roll20's built-in character sheets made the physical to digital transition so much easier for many of my players.

However.

### *We Can Do Better*

Despite having the lowest buy-in of any VTT we could find at the time, the user experience was desperately lacking. During peak hours the service would fail to load, players would lose connection, and interactions like dice rolls would take tens of seconds to resolve. If it wasn't server issues we were experiencing it was client issues. Clunky controls and an interface that was unintuitive and difficult to navigate regularly made our sessions unnecessarily frustrating or confusing. Despite this, our ultimate disappointment was in the loss of the tactile, in-person experience. Something about moving miniatures and rolling dice in-person just couldn't be emulated by the flat nature of Roll20.

For quite some time since I have held the opinion that a Virtual Tabletop cannot provide an experience as rich as a physical TTRPG. In 2022, I was proven wrong when I purchased a little VTT called TaleSpire. It was this moment that something inside of me changed.Roll20 has a special place in my heart for being the place we could go when the world shutdown, but now I know we can do better.

Thats why I was inspired to begin work on a little project I am calling *"Alchemy - A Virtual Tabletop for the Modern Era."*

#### *"If TaleSpire is so great, why make another VTT? Why not just use TaleSpire?"*
I've already briefly sung the praises of TaleSpire and I appreciate the amazing work from the talented team at Bouncyrock Entertainment, but at the end of the day they are running a studio and they have to make money to keep the lights on The literal dollar cost of TaleSpire or other VTT solutions can be difficult for a TTRPG group to swallow. It's often better if a single member of a group can pay for a shared license, but I want to reduce friction for players and DMs alike by completely eliminating this barrier.